---
layout: post
title:  "Billy Milligan: an innocent sufferer or a mastermind criminal faking it all along?"
author: stutichhabra AND evaslesarenko
categories: [ Entertainment ]
image: assets/images/3.jpg
---
In 1977, at Ohio State University, a “campus rapist” emerged. The police noticed that across all three cases, the MO (way of operating, such as patterns in the acts) of the perpetrator had been the same, in which the victims would be held at gunpoint, sexually assaulted, and then robbed, meaning that this was likely the doing of the same person. The police had found enough evidence to identify the man behind these crimes and arrest him. The victims had been able to take the police to the locations of these occurrences, from which they were able to gather fingerprints. They identified the culprit as Billy Milligan and arrested him after conducting a search at his residence where they found the driver’s licenses of some of his victims. However, despite all this evidence, Billy continued to say “I don’t know why they’re saying I’ve done all these things”. His sister stated: “I could see it in his eyes that he was absolutely clueless about what was happening”. As a result of his confusion, Billy reacted and pulled a urinal off of his cell wall to try to use the porcelain silvers to slash his wrists. This accident got various different types of doctors involved in Billy’s case. 

Dr. Dorothy Turner - forensic psychologist spent quite a lot of time with Billy. She gave him a Rorschach test (abstract images test) and found the results to be highly disjointed and confusing. Numerous other tests were performed which revealed significant differences in his IQ on different days. The results went from it seeming as though he had an intellectual disability to “genius level”. They also noticed that his voice and accent changed on many occasions throughout their conversations. Due to these puzzling results, the doctors decided to test Billy’s brain waves with an EEG. There are 3 different types of brain waves that we have throughout our lifetime which change depending on our age. Billy’s brain waves were found to be of a much younger age than his actual age. Soon they diagnosed him to have Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID). People with DID develop alternate personalities which function with or without the awareness of the person’s core identity. This disorder is usually the result of experiencing extremely traumatic events such as physical and sexual abuse, it is a way for people to detach themselves from the trauma as a coping mechanism. This fit into Billy’s story who had witnessed his mother get beaten up by his stepfather, Chalmer Milligan. Chalmer would also beat Billy and his brother in their garage. He would tell them that if they talked to their mother or sisters about it, they would suffer as well. Chalmer would constantly pick on Billy; he had raped Billy 3 times, forced him to dig a grave, and lay in it with a metal pipe being the only way to breathe. He then filled the rest of the grave in so Billy was almost buried alive, and urinated down the pipe. 

Billy (the host personality) didn’t know that he was suffering from DID. He thought everyone in the world was like him as he would see the way people’s moods would change and think that is what is going on with him as well. He was found to have 24 alters throughout his life. The personality who had the most control was Arthur - the one that dealt with situations requiring intellectual thinking. Ragen - coming from the words “rage” and “again” was the violent one who admitted to committing the robberies but had no knowledge of the rapes. Allen was a con man and a manipulator, the most common person to talk to the outside world. David (age 8), was the “keeper of pain”. Tommy was the escape artist, who got out of his locked unit at Harding hospital. Christene (age 3) was the scared quiet girl who had dyslexia, but Arthur taught her how to read and write. Adalana was the 19-year old lesbian who Billy’s attorney claimed had admitted to committing the rapes without the knowledge of the others. Billy had not been allowed to “wake up” for several years. Arthur said “we put him to sleep during a suicide attempt at 16”, meaning that the host personality had been gone for 5 years at the time. 

Despite admitting to the acts, he pleaded innocent. His defense team had several psychiatrists write that he was not responsible for the crimes as it was committed by the multiple personalities that he could not control and was not even aware of. He was found not guilty for reasons of insanity. This meant that instead of prisons, he was put into mental institutions for a decade where psychologists worked with him to bring all the personalities into 1. They were successful in fusing his alters, creating a new personality called “the teacher” which was a combination of all the others. He was then discharged from the Ohio mental health system in 1988, but was that the right decision? Because fusion didn’t mean that he was cured of DID. 

In July 1986, Billy had escaped the mental facility he was in and crossed state borders with help from his friend and his brother. During this time, he lived under the alias Cristopher Carr, as he was officially on the run from the authorities. Around the time that Billy was out of the mental health facility, Michael Madden (Billy's roommate at the time) was reported as missing. The police went to Billy’s cousin's house, where they found his belongings. In one of his boxes, there were some glasses with specs of blood on them - similar-looking ones to Michael Madden’s. Jim (Billy’s older brother) said that Billy had gone to a party with around 300 people and had no contact with Jim all weekend. Billy couldn’t recall where he was. It was later found to be the same weekend as Michael’s disappearance. Then, Billy returned Jim all his diving equipment except the weight belt, which led many to believe that he might have dumped Michael's body in a nearby body of water. When police began investigating Michael's disappearance, very quickly Christopher Carr, a.k.a. Billy Milligan, became their top suspect, as a neighbor saw a dispute occur between them the day Michael went missing. Furthermore, Christophers/Billys’ explanation of the events leading up to the disappearance didn’t add up. However, the police did not deem this as being enough evidence to find Billy guilty, mainly due to the lack of Michael's body.

While it is possible that Billy had either nothing to do with Michael's disappearance, or he had no recollection of the events due to his DID, his suspicious confession to his girlfriend makes it plausible that he began using his diagnosis to get away with things. Billy’s girlfriend Tracy had asked her brother to come to her house because Billy had threatened to kill her. Billy then called her to talk to her brother and said “you realize that I can come over there and kill all of you and there’s nothing they can do about it because I’m mentally ill”. He had told Tracy previously “those cops are so stupid and incompetent” because they hadn’t realized that he had Michael Madden’s glasses with blood on them with him when they had arrested him in Florida. This raised the question: “Was he using his illness to get away with terrible crimes towards the end after seeing how easily he had been let off previously, or was he really still sick and it was one of the alters speaking during his confession?” 

