---
layout: post
title:  "Oh NO, they’re UNCONSCIOUS"
author: JULIA STOGEL & AMELIE BELCHER
categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1528784351875-d797d86873a1?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=750&q=80
---
Has it ever happened to you that you’ve been in a position where you need to help an unconscious person? Let’s hope not, but you might in the future. Here is a step by step guide on how you can potentially save a person’s life. 

Check your surroundings to make sure you are safe. Your safety comes before anyone else's!
While approaching the person from the direction of their head, call out to them to see if they are answering. (one of the three signs of life)
If there is no response,  shake them violently (but don’t cause them more harm), and see if they wake up or not. If there is an answer, ask what happened and how you can help, if not then follow to step 4 and call an ambulance (155 or 112 if you don’t speak czech or are in other EU countries). 
Place one of your hands under their chin, and one on the back of their head, and carefully tip their head back. Check for breathing by placing the back of your palm on above of their mouth and nose. 
Once you are connected with the operator, describe the situation to them and they will instruct you on what to do next, while the ambulance is on their way



Now you should be confident enough to help anyone who needs it. Practice is great but let's not hope for that.
(place this picture next to the “How to perform CPR”)
How to perform CPR?
Many public places in Czech republic now are equipped with a defibrillator: trams, metro, hotels, restaurants and so on. The defibrillator has an automated speaker which carefully instructs you how to operate it. However, if this is not available in the area you are located in, you are in no way obliged to perform CPR. Nevertheless, here are rough steps on how to pump the heart, incase you are willing to do so:
Place your hand above each other and center them on the chest of the person.
Lean forward and straighten your hand so they are at a 90 degree angle to the ground.
Push down with your body weight (not just your arms) about 5 to 7 cm and lift them back up
The ratio of chest compressions to breaths are 30:2 at an average rate of 100 to 120 bpm or to the beat of the songs: Stayin’ Alive, Just Dance, Na Okoř Je Cesta, Dancing Queen or Boy With Love feat. Halsey (do not perform artificial breaths if you do not want to)
