---
layout: post
title:  "Heartbreak"
author: saradejdarova
categories: [ Entertainment ]
image: assets/images/olympics.jpg
---
The 2022 Olympic Games in Beijing have been over for about a month, and it appears that they have already been forgotten. However, the harm they have inflicted has not abated, particularly in women's figure skating. The women's figure skating competition was one of, if not the most, dramatic and upsetting events at the Olympics this year. It was an event you didn't want to miss.

The most talked-about athlete from the games was 15-year-old Kamila Valieva, who was accused of drug misuse after completing her short skate. She tested positive for three different heart medications (she does not have a heart condition), one of which was trimetazidine. It increases blood flow to the heart and reduces blood pressure swings. TMZ is not only illegal in the United States, but it is also prohibited by the World Anti-Doping Association; it is classified as a "hormone and metabolic modulator," a class of medications that are prohibited for athletes to use. You should also wait until you are 18 years old to take it. In the subsequent hearing, Valieva's attorney, Anna Kozmenko claimed the 15-year-old accidentally took trimetazidine through a contaminated product. Kozmenko argued the drug belonged to Valieva's grandfather, who takes it for heart issues. Valieva's team also said that because she is under the age of 16, she's a "protected person" and can be offered exemptions or leniency under The World Anti-Doping Code.

There was a debate about whether or not she will be allowed to skate at the rest of the Olympics, with the committee coming to a decision that yes, she will be allowed to skate, but if she were to win a medal, she will not get the medal and there will be no medal ceremony whatsoever. Many people disagreed with this decision, saying that Valieva should have not been allowed to compete at all. NBC commentator Tara Lipinski (1998 gold medalist) said that she feels for the teen amid the fallout. “I can’t imagine how tough this has been on Kamila and it makes me angry that the adults weren’t able to make better decisions and guide her and be there for her because she is the one now dealing with the consequences. She’s just 15 and that’s not fair. With that being said, she should not have been allowed to skate in this Olympic event.” There was a lot of conspiracy when this came to light, because Valieva's sample was obtained Dec. 25 at the Russian national championships in St. Petersburg. The Swedish lab didn't report the results until more than six weeks later and blamed COVID-19 issues for the delay. It is also well known that their coach choses what the girls eat for them, so she could have crushed the drug into her food, without Valieva’s consent.

Even though going into the Olympics it was almost certain that Valieva would win, she ended up being fourth overall after majorly messing up her free skate. She was in the lead for the short program, but then the drug scandal came to light and unsurprisingly Kamila started crumbling. Her free skate was the worst program she had ever done, with her falling after almost every single jump. The moment she finished the skate, she started crying right there on the ice. As she got off the ice to go to her coach, she did not console her, instead she asked her “Why did you let go? Why did you stop fighting?” after probably the hardest skate of Kamila’s life. The saddest part is that you could see just how hard she was trying, but was just absolutely devastated. The moment they call out her score, and she finds out that she’s fourth overall, Valieva says “At least now they will not cancel the medal ceremony,” and full on breaks down crying. The only person there to comfort her was a Russian broadcaster. 

Next there was Alexandra Trusova (Sasha), who underwent a meltdown when she learned she didn't win gold, despite the fact that her coach (who also trained Shcherbakova and Valieva) had informed her she would because she had done five quadruple jumps (which had never been done before at the Olympics). When Sasha found out she had lost, she began yelling at everyone (especially the coaches), saying things like "I hate you, I despise this sport, I'm never going to skate again." The absolute devastation and betrayal on her face when this was happening was heartbreaking to see. And while you might expect the winner of the Olympic Games to be ecstatic, that was most definitely not the case for Anna Shcherbakova. The moment it was declared that she won the gold medal, no one from her team went to celebrate with her, instead they were either consoling Valieva or trying to calm down Trusova. Any shot of Anna from the winner’s couch showed her zoned out and miserable, just staring at the ground, as if she wasn’t truly present. At the press interviews Shcherbakova told reporters "I have mixed feelings —on one hand I was very happy to be in the right time and the right place … on the other hand, I feel this emptiness inside.” The situation was so bad, that an Olympic gold medalist says that she feels empty inside. The saying, “a picture is worth a thousand words'' could not be more true for this situation, as the image above shows the three medalist on the stand, with Sasha supposedly flipping everyone off and tears running down her cheeks, Anna looking dead inside and Sakamoto being the only happy person there, even though she was third.

**So who is the woman behind all of this?**

Eteri Tutberidze, the Russian coach, has become quite the household name in figure skating in the past couple of years. She has trained Evgenia Medvedeva (two time world champion and Olympic silver medalist), Alina Zagitova (Olympic gold medalist) and now Kamila Valieva, Anna Shcherbakova and Alexandra Trusova. It is said that the girls she trains have an ‘expiration date’ of 17/18 years old, because pretty much none of her skaters keep skating past 18. Zagitova, after winning the Olympic games in 2018, retired in 2019 saying that the game had passed her by, that she was too old (at 17) to hit quads, and that if she had any hope of landing one, she'd need to first lose weight. None of Eteri’s skaters skate past 18, because the training is so intense that they get a lot of injuries and their knees usually start to give out. 

