---
layout: post
title:  "Warhol's dance with death"
author: nataliechorvatova
categories: [ entertainment ]
image: assets/images/andy-warhol-bridge-gda13a6229_1280.jpg
---

One radical feminist writer’s bullet aimed at the world-famous pop movement artist  - both authors of established masterworks, regardless of their difference in context. Andy Warhol may be a name of familiarity worldwide, however, Valerie Solana’s may be foreign, regardless of her intense and ideologically oriented life course that left a mark on history and pop culture as we know it today. The rivetting case of how Andy Warhol’s life was changed forever, left with a life-longing memory of Solano’s terror.

### Who pulled the trigger?

An author of the SCUM (society for cutting-up men) manifesto, Valerie Solano, was born in New Jersey where she had suffered a troubling childhood, enduring sexual abuse from both her father and her grandfather as well as struggling throughout a rebellious and disobedient lifestyle in her early life as a result of her unstable upbringing. Consequently, during her highschool education, Solano began to spiral and follow down a path consisting of homelessness, violence and forced-upon independence which contributed to the later on paranoid schizophrenia that infiltrated her life and that her actions corresponded with throughout the ongoing years. Due to her terrifying past, Solano’s faith and emotion towards men consisted strongly of fiery hatred, which further grew as her mental illness blossomed as a young adult. 

### Men were the problem

In order to explore the attempted assassination on Warhol, it is essential to grasp the  mentality behind the attacker. Valerie Solanos, due to the amounts of trauma she has undergone had one clear idea in mind: the elimination of all men. She strongly believed that men were the cause behind the broken system the world had developed into, blaming them for the patriarchal structure the world is constructed from and arguing their complete elimination. The opening line of the manifesto that she had produced whilst at university obtaining her psychology degree stated, “Life in this society being, at best, an utter bore and no aspect of society being at all relevant to women, there remains to civic-minded, responsible, thrill-seeking females only to overthrow the government, eliminate the money system, institute complete automation and destroy the male sex.” Additionally, she strongly argued that men were not shaped like this throughout society, however, they were purely born with lack of emotional and mental incompatibility, degrading their sense of intellectuality and importance in this world, which gave her an infamous anti-patriarchal name.

### The inside scoop

The attack on Warhol came from an already existing relationship, where Solanos appeared in the same social bubble as Warhol, creating the perfect opportunity for her manifesto to become popularized. Additionally, another one of  Solano’s creations, a play titled “Up your ass” came into Warhol’s reach after Solano’s desire to have Warhol produce it, which in their history was the first step towards destruction. The play had many familiarities to the scum manifesto previously created by Solano’s, therefore had a main character representing a man-hating, misandrist character of a prostitute, seen as quite the paradox - which was a persona based on Solano’s own background and history. This play was the origin of the problem within Solanos and Warhol, as he simply did not care about her overly-sexualized and offensive work, especially since Warhol already dealt with shame regarding  his own controversy in his hypersexualized art medias. Solano’s work was so indecent that it was believed to be satire. Warhol did not take it seriously and therefore did not hold onto it, and when Solano’s attempted to get it back, he simply told her he lost it which created the final conflict - HE’S TRYING TO STEAL MY WORK!  Solano’s jumped to the conclusion that her life’s work was being stolen, and saw him as a threat immediately. The threats and interrogation started throughout phone calls, until Warhol chose to ignore Solano’s so called “insanity”, and therefore Solanos, not recieving her work back, was fully convinced her manifesto and play were about to be plagiarized.

### Light at the end of the tunnel

June 3rd, 1968. The day Warhol experienced his near-death experience after Solano’s showed up at Andy Warhol’s brand new studio after seeking him outside of his offices the entire day. 	Solano’s took the opportunity to shoot Warhol three times, the first bullet not reaching him whereas the third ultimately made impact, hitting areas such as lungs, stomach and liver. After an attempt on the assassination of other individuals in the studio, such as both manager and critic, she had fled the building and later on turned herself in. Warhol survived after an intense fight for his life : multiple operations where Warhol’s chest had to be opened. Warhol would have lived wearing a surgical corset for the rest of his life until 1987, and Solano’s would later plead guilty to assault charges, not only blaming Warhol for control over her life but also the mental downfall after three years of jail time.

Solano’s work has been criticized, as well as widely hailed and seen as a revolutionary piece in the “feminist canon”. Even though Solano’s actions were seen as controversial at best from the viewpoint of a paranoid schizophrenic, her story and mentality still grasps the attention of thousands through her written work, dark past and connection to Warhol. Though society deemed her as someone to be frowned upon, many radical feminist movements had named her legendary, a hero to be remembered in history for her “progressive” stance towards men. At the end of the day, whether it was her work that made her name known, or the attempted assassination on Warhol, her non-conforming hatred fulfilled manifesto left a mark on the patriarchal culture and the political climate surrounding feminism once and for all.
